---
title: Sf.js
date: 2016-10-13 18:32:22
tags:
layout: post
---


I recently went to the Bay Area to visit my brother and got a chance to go to
some meetups and mingle with the local nerdfolk. Here's a summary of the
meetups I attended and what I learned:

## Electron Meetup

The first meetup was for the exciting new Node.js-based framework
[Electron](electron.atom.io). It lets you build desktop apps in HTML/CSS/JS
and then distribute it to Windows/OS X/Linux. I've been playing around with
it, so I was excited to hear more about it, especially since two of the
presenters were from Github and part of the Electron team.

The first presentation was a primer on new features added to Electron. The
project only recently hit version 1.0 and it's still under heavy development.
I think for anyone using it in production it's going to be important to keep
track of development and the direction the team goes.

Next we had a demo of building an Electron app to send commands to a robot.
All the serious code was handled by pre-existing Node.js plug-ins, but it was
a fun demo (showing off the
[Sphero BB-8 robot](http://store.sphero.com/products/bb-8-by-sphero)), and
shows how easy it is to quickly build a desktop GUI app using Node.js
packages.

The most interesting presentation from a technological perspective was
from a member of the [Slack](https://slack.com) team, showing off their new
project [Electron-Compile](https://github.com/electron/electron-compile).
It's a way to simplify the transpilation of source code into HTML/CSS/JS
during development of an Electron app. Much time was spent demonstrating
the cleverness of the team in achieving this, which I can't reproduce here.
It was most impressive, and definitely something I will look into using for
my next Electron project.

And finally, the most entertaining presentation from the presenter with the
most flair, [Guillermo Rauch](https://twitter.com/rauchg) basically showed
off his nifty new Electron-based terminal emulator,
[Hyper.app](https://github.com/zeit/hyper) (until a recent cease & desist
known as HyperTerm). I didn't really learn much knew, as I was already
familiar with the project, but I was dazzled by the things he could do with
it. I highly recommend checking out Hyper.app and playing around with it.
I would describe it as the [Atom](https://atom.io) of terminal emulators.

## TypeScript

My next meetup was at Google's SF Headquarters to learn about TypeScript,
last year's hot new language to transpile to JavaScript that I haven't heard
much on since. I have a lot less to say about this presentation, as it it
simply wasn't as interesting. The main thing that I learned from it is that,
contrary to what I'd heard before, the main advantage of TypeScript is not
avoiding type errors at runtime but actually to allow for better tooling
(specifically better IntelliSense code-completion in Visual Studio/VS Code).
It makes sense now why Microsoft would create and push TypeScript, as it
seems well married to their text editors.

## NodeSchool SF

Finally, while not a true meetup, I attended
[NodeSchool](http://nodeschool.io) SF, an open workshop for learning more
about Node.js. I attended a special workshop there on contributing to the
Node.js core codebase. There, I found that I had a little trouble actually
Node.js from source because on my Arch Linux installation Python 3 is named
simply `python`, and the Node.js make files expect Python 2. I finally got
around this by temporarily symlinking `python2` to `python` and overriding my
usual `$PATH`. After getting it compiled, my first commit to the Node.js
project was [a modification to the documentation regarding building it](https://github.com/nodejs/node/commit/7f7502d901e8eb9db5213121a6b0a9d4f825d23c).
Just getting my feet wet, to be sure, but a satisfying feeling.
