---
title: Retro Tech
date: 2025-08-27
draft: true
---

The [Computer History Museum](https://computerhistory.org/) in the heart of
Silicon Valley is probably my favorite museum. It has an Apple I. It has an
Enigma machine. They have two working IBM 1401 mainframes (you can punch out
a program and run it). They have a replica of the Greek
(Antikythera mechanism)[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antikythera_mechanism]:
a mechanical device made in the 2nd century BC that tracks astronomical objects
for sailors. I'd never heard of it before going to the museum, but it was one
of my favorite things.

I used to work just down the street from the museum. And yet, most of my
co-workers either had no interest in going or had gone once and were bored.
While I can empathize with not being interested in a museum--I have never
been a big fan of them--but I suppose because I am so interested in computers
that learning about those created before I was born that I would never
*actually* want to use is incredibly interesting to me. Also, because I love
computers, I have taken to reading books about them. To then be able to
physically see objects that I have read about is the kind of visceral
experience we're in danger of losing in our modern age.

Recently my wife and I created a smart planter together (we made two YouTube
videos about the process, one for the
[product design](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7MQyoONSZl8), the other for
the [technical](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zGE_T_Zt9pQ)). Since we both
enjoy watching retro 80's computing content online (and even had a particular
[earworm-y commercial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=95cGh9EeMIY) stuck in
our heads for weeks), we decided to use the Commodore 64 for the aesthetic
inspiration. When we had the planter on display as part of my wife's exhibit
at the Open Sauce maker conference, I thought for sure that the nerdy
demographic there would appreciate the homage. To my surprise, however, few
people seemed to even recognize the similarity. Of the hundreds of people I
talked to over the weekend, I think maybe only four people even mentioned the
Commodore 64, three of which began reminisicing about how their first
introduction to computers was on the Commodore 64.

---

I have never been 
I have never been 
I have never been 
I have never been 
I have never been 
I have never been 
I have never been 
I have never been 
